---
layout: post
title: "Deej-A.I."
permalink: /deej-ai/
---
There are a number of automatic DJ tools around, which cleverly match the tempo of one song with another and mix the beats. Instead of sticking music in categories, I wanted to come up with a continuous way to organise and explore it. Rather than going by information *about* the artists or the songs, I was looking for something that related songs by how they *sounded*.
<!--more-->

Because the representation is continuous, you can easily create a playlist which smoothly "joins the dots" between one song and another, passing through as many waypoints as you like (for example, from Mozart to Motörhead).

I trained neural networks to come up with two different representations to group either by similar artists or by similar sounding tracks (in terms of energy, mood, rhythm or instrumentation). The "creativity" parameter allows you to mix the two. A creativity of 1 might produce similar sounding tracks by artists you have never heard of (but may not necessarily like), 0 might produce a predictable selection and 0.5 might be a good compromise. Finally, the "noise" parameter introduces a bit of randomness if you want to create various playlists with the same characteristics. If ou have a Spotify account, the playlists are upoaded directly to your account.

This was my Masters in Deep Learning project at [MBIT School](https://www.mbitschool.com/). If you want to learn about it works, check out this [article](https://towardsdatascience.com/create-automatic-playlists-by-using-deep-learning-to-listen-to-the-music-b72836c24ce2).
